



Door breaching - Wikipedia









































Door breaching

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
 A U.S. Marine performs a ballistic breach of a padlocked door using a combat shotgun
Door breaching is a process used by military, police, or emergency services to force open closed or locked doors. A wide range of methods are available, one or more of which may be used in any given situation.[1] Regarding the use of specified tools for forcible entry, there are several other methods of door breaching. These methods may be divided up into mechanical breaching, ballistic breaching, hydraulic breaching, explosive breaching, and thermal breaching.[2]

Contents

1 Common methods
2 Types

2.1 Mechanical
2.2 Ballistic
2.3 Explosive
2.4 Thermal


3 Examples of tools and operations
4 See also
5 References


Common methods[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 Back kicking a door
Where no tools are available, it is usually possible to force open most inward-opening doors with a strong kick that breaks through the door frame. This can be a common method of entry for many trained police officers who are conducting searches, most interior doors can be forced by kicking. Converse to most movies, the safest method to kick a door is back kicking, with your back to the door. This method reduces the chance of injury to the breacher. Kicking in a locked door is also sometimes attempted or performed by neighbors and ordinary passers-by who witness an emergency situation such as a house that is on fire (though the first step should always be to call emergency services) in order to ensure that everyone is out of the house or to notify/assist anyone who is not. Kicking in doors is less commonly used in burglary attempts since the process requires a great deal of energy and makes a lot of noise.

Types[edit]
Mechanical[edit]
 A battering ram is used to breach a training door
Mechanical breaching can be minimally destructive, through the use of lock picks.[3] This method is relatively slow and requires a trained operator, but does not damage the lock or door. Using specialized tools (i.e.: A-tool, K-tool), a lock cylinder can also be quickly dismantled and unlocked without removing it from the door; this method also allows the door to be closed and re-locked. Mechanical breaching also includes hydraulic breaching, which uses a special hydraulic ram to overcome the lock. The hydraulic ram may be powered manually, pneumatically, or electrically. More dynamic methods (kinetic breaching) use force to break the lock or door. The common methods are to use a lever, such as a Halligan bar or crowbar, or to use a tool to concentrate a large amount of force on the door, such as a sledgehammer, hydraulic jack, or battering ram.[4][5]

Ballistic[edit]
 Suggested target locations for breaching a door at the latch (left) and the hinges (right)
Ballistic breaching uses a projectile weapon to breach an opening. Weapons used can range from small arms to the 120 mm cannon of a main battle tank with a HEAT round, which will breach most obstacles easily, though the force involved may violate the rules of engagement.[6] A less damaging ballistic breach needs to destroy either the latch and lock, or the hinges of the door, and the ideal choice for this is the shotgun. While in theory other firearms can be used, handguns are usually underpowered[7] and rifles are less effective than the shotgun and pose a far higher risk of ricochet and collateral injury.[6] Most shotgun ammunition can be used for breaching, though the risk of injury varies with type. Of the available shotgun ammunition, shotgun slugs pose the highest risk, as they will retain significant energy to cause lethal wounds well after they have penetrated the door. Buckshot is far safer and birdshot even more so, as the multiple small projectiles disperse quickly after penetration, reducing the chances of causing a lethal wound. The safest option is a frangible round such as the TESAR or Hatton round, which turns to dust upon penetrating the door, and disperses completely upon exit.[2]
Breaching a door with the fewest shots possible both is faster and reduces the chance of collateral damage. Attacking the latch and lock is easiest, as it requires fewer shots and is easiest to target, whereas attacking the hinges requires more shots, and the hinges may be hidden from the outside. Careful aim is required; shots to the lock side are fired at a point halfway between the lock or handle and the door frame in order to hit the bolt holding the door shut. According to US urban warfare doctrine, the breaching operation is performed with the muzzle in contact with the door, or as close as possible, and angled downwards at a 45 degree angle. This process provides the best chance of hitting the desired point, while minimizing risk to occupants of the room being breached. Muzzle attachments are available on some specialized breaching shotguns to facilitate this operation, by holding the barrel securely in place while providing a slight standoff to allow powder gases to escape.[2][8]
Magazine capacity and operating mechanism are also important considerations in a breaching shotgun, because to quickly breach a door requires the ability to quickly fire multiple shots. For a breach on the latch side, US doctrine calls for two shots to be fired, and then an attempt made to open the door. If the door cannot be opened, the process would need to be quickly repeated. If the hinges must be breached, then doctrine calls for a total of three shots, one per hinge followed by an attempt to open the door.[2]

Explosive[edit]
Explosive breaching can be the fastest method, though it is also the most dangerous, to both the breachers and the room occupants. Depending on the situation, explosive breaching is potentially slower than a ballistic breach due to the large standoff required when using explosives, if there is no cover available.[6] Breaching can be performed with a specially formed breaching charge placed in contact with the door, or with various standoff breaching devices, such as specialized rifle grenades like the SIMON breach grenade.[9]
Breaching using explosives is primarily an operation performed by highly trained explosives experts. Explosive breaching charges can range from highly focused methods, such as detcord, plastic explosives, or strip shaped charges that explosively cut through doors or latches, to large satchel charges, containing 20 pounds (9 kg) of C-4, that can breach even reinforced concrete bunkers.[10]
Explosive method of entry can be a safe and effective tool in the hands of qualified breachers.  It is the mission of the explosive breacher to use the least amount of explosive needed to secure penetration to a target.  This can often be accomplished using less than a quarter of a pound of explosives when used correctly.
In addition to the tactical use, explosives have been used for search and rescue or other critical access situations.

Thermal[edit]
Thermal breaching is one of the least common techniques and also one of the slowest. It involves the use of a cutting torch to cut through metal doors.[11]

Examples of tools and operations[edit]

Mechanical breaching



The adze and pick end of a typical Halligan bar






A manually operated hydraulic spreader-cutter of a type used by rescue workers to force open doors






An externally powered spreader-cutter tool






A Halligan tool and an axe, both common tools used by firefighters to breach doors to fight a fire





Ballistic breaching



A ballistic breach at night of a padlocked door; this shotgun has a pistol grip rather than a full stock to make it more compact






The breaching shotgun can be carried on a long sling, to allow easy transition to a primary weapon






KAC Masterkey is a system that consists of a Remington 870 12 gauge pump-action shotgun mounted on a M16 or M4 assault rifle in an underbarrel configuration. This removes the need to carry a separate breaching shotgun.




Explosive breaching



U.S. Marines place an explosive breaching charge on a door, positioned to separate the door from its hinges






U.S. Marines take cover behind a protective shield during an explosive breach of a door











A US M100 Grenade Rifle Entry Munition (a SIMON derivative) detonates against a door






Preparing an explosive charge – Coiled det cord taped to an IV bag.





Thermal breaching



Crewmembers from a U.S. Coast Guard cutter practice exothermal breaching techniques






A member of the U.S. Coast Guard Maritime security Response Team uses a torch to cut through a ship's watertight door




See also[edit]
Hydraulic rescue tools
Mouse-holing
No-knock warrant
Petard
References[edit]


^ west, phil (2014). Survival Weapons: Optimizing Your Arsenal. Lulu.com. ISBN 978-1-291-46098-8.

^ a b c d "Section 3-20, Breaching". FM 3-06-11. US Army.

^ Haris, Hofelner (2019-12-05). "Door Knobs in 2019 Guide and Review". Household Professor. Retrieved 2019-12-07.

^ Don Munson. "Action Target's Tactical Breach Door". Tactical Response Magazine.

^ LaFemina, Fred. "Back to Basics: Forcible Entry". FireRescue1. Retrieved 11 September 2016.

^ a b c US Army. FM 7-8 INFANTRY RIFLE PLATOON AND SQUAD. Chapter 6, Urban Operations

^ See Mythbusters Special 9

^ The "Mossberg 500 Tactical Cruiser". Archived from the original on 2008-02-16.is equipped with a standoff door breaching barrel

^ Scott R. Gourley (April 2007). "M100 Grenade Rifle Entry Munition" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-02-18. Retrieved 2015-05-15. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

^ FM 3-06-11. US Army. Table 8-7, Summary of breaching charges

^ "Special Ops Breaching". Tactical Life Gun Magazine: Gun News and Gun Reviews. 2008-03-01. Retrieved 2019-12-07.


vteFirefightingPersonnel and organization
Battalion chief
Chief firefighter
Fire captain
Fire chief
Station officer
Retained firefighter
Fire marshal
Fire police
Firefighter assist and search team
Handcrew
Special operations firefighters
Volunteer fire department
Women in firefighting
Fire department ranks by country
Facilities
Fire department
list
Fire lookout tower
Fire station
Apparatus
Airport crash tender
Fire bike
Fire car
Fire engine
Fireboat
Firefighting apparatus
Hazardous materials apparatus
Light and air unit
Quint
Rescue vehicle
Water tender
Equipment
Bunker gear
Escape chair
Fire extinguisher
Fire hose
Fire hydrant
Fire proximity suit
Fire retardant
Fire shelter
Fireman's pole
Fireman's switch
Flame retardant
Fog nozzle
Halligan bar
Hard suction hose
Hazmat suit
Heat detector
Hose bridge
Hydraulic rescue tools ("Jaws of life")
Nomex
PASS device
Portable water tank
Rotary saw
Self-contained breathing apparatus
Siren
Smoke detector
Thermal imaging camera
Terminology
Backdraft
Dead man zone
Deluge gun
Door breaching
Draft
Fire class
Fire control
Fire safety
Fire triangle
Fireman's carry
Firewall
Flash fire
Gaseous fire suppression
Stop, drop and roll
Structure fire
barn fire
Two-in, two-out
Ventilation
Miscellaneous
Candidate Physical Ability Test
Fire camp
Fire engine red
Fire photography
Fire protection engineering
Geography of firefighting
History of firefighting
International Association of Fire Fighters
International Firefighters' Day
List of firefighting films
Muster
Saint Florian
World Firefighters Games
World Police and Fire Games
WildfiresGeneral
Wildfire emergency management
Wildfire suppression
Equipment and tactics
Aerial firefighting
Controlled burn
Driptorch
Fire flapper
Fire hose
Fire lookout tower
Fire rake
Fire retardant
Fire retardant gel
Fire trail
Firebreak
Firefighting apparatus
Firefighting foam
Helicopter bucket
Hose pack
McLeod
Modular Airborne FireFighting System
Pulaski
Wildfire suppression equipment and personnel
Wildland fire engine
Wildland water tender
Personnel
Fire lookout
Handcrew
Helitack
Hotshot crew
Smokejumper
Wildland fire module
By location
Ancient Rome
Australia
United States
History
California
Washington
Lists
Glossary of wildfire terms
List of wildfires

 Category
 Commons
 Glossary
 Index
 Outline





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Door_breaching&oldid=1077871541"
Categories: FirefightingLaw enforcement techniquesHidden categories: CS1 errors: missing periodicalArticles needing additional references from December 2019All articles needing additional references






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




In other projects


Wikimedia Commons




Languages


DeutschEspañol
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 18 March 2022, at 17:04 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










