



Gull-wing door - Wikipedia









































Gull-wing door

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Car door hinged at the roof
For other uses, see Gull-wing.
 Mercedes-Benz 300 SL Gullwing Coupé with its doors open
 A Bricklin SV-1 with its doors open
 A DMC DeLorean with its doors open
 A Cessna 350 light aircraft with its gull-wing doors open
In the an automotive industry, a gull-wing door, also known as a falcon-wing door or an up-door, is a car door that is hinged at the roof rather than the side, as pioneered by Mercedes-Benz 300 SL, first as a race car in 1952 (W194), and then as a production sports car in 1954.
Opening upwards, the doors evoke the image of a seagull's wings. In French they are portes papillon (butterfly doors). The papillon door was designed by Jean Bugatti for the 1939 Type 64,[1] 14 years before Mercedes-Benz produced its similar, famous 300 SL gullwing door. The papillon door is a precursor to the gullwing door, and is slightly different in its architecture, but is often overlooked when discussing gull-wing design.[2] Conventional car doors are typically hinged at the front-facing edge of the door, with the door swinging outward horizontally.
Apart from the Mercedes-Benz 300 SL of the mid-1950s and the experimental Mercedes-Benz C111 of the early 1970s, the best-known examples of road-cars with gull-wing doors are the Bricklin SV-1 from the 1970s, the DMC DeLorean from the 1980s, and the Tesla Model X of the 2010s. Gull-wing doors have also been used in aircraft designs, such as the four-seat single-engine Socata TB series built in France.[3]

Contents

1 Practical considerations
2 Design challenges
3 List of automobiles

3.1 Production cars
3.2 Kit cars


4 Aircraft
5 See also
6 References
7 External links


Practical considerations[edit]
The design is a very practical one in a tight urban parking space. When properly designed and counterbalanced, they require little side-clearance to open (about 27.5 cm, or 11" in the DeLorean[4] and allow much better entrance/egress than conventional doors. The most obvious downside to having gull-wing doors is that, were the car to roll over and come to rest on its roof, exit by the doors would be impossible, requiring a large windscreen opening to escape. The Mercedes SLS solved this problem by fitting explosive bolts in the hinges, that would blow up if the car rolled over.
The Volvo YCC, a concept car designed by and for women, had gull-wing doors as part of its design. Gull-wing doors to make it easier to lift a bag to store it behind the driver's seat, increase visibility over the driver's shoulder, and make it easier to get in and out of the car.[5]
The Tesla Model X, first introduced in 2015, has double-hinged gull-wing doors, called falcon-wing doors by Tesla. The Model X has several design considerations to make the doors more practical. Being double-hinged allows them to open with less clearance (horizontal and vertical) than would otherwise be required. The vehicle also has sensors to determine ceiling height and the presence of potential obstacles and to determine how the hinges will operate to open the doors and avoid obstacles, if possible.[6]

Design challenges[edit]
Gull-wing doors have a somewhat questionable reputation because of early examples like the Mercedes and the Bricklin.[7] The 300 SL needed the door design, as its tubular frame race car chassis design had a very high door sill, which in combination with a low roof would make a standard door opening very low and small. The Mercedes engineers solved the problem by also opening a part of the roof. The Bricklin was a more conventionally sized door but the actuation system was problematic in day-to-day use and led to unreliable operation until an aftermarket air-door upgrade was installed in all Bricklins.[8] In addition, there was some concern that in making the doors as light as possible they wouldn't provide adequate protection in side-impact accidents. There was, however, no indication that this concern was justified.[who?]
The DeLorean solved these problems by using a patented cryogenically-set stainless steel torsion bar spring (manufactured by Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation) to partially counterbalance a full-sized door, and then added a gas-pressurized (pneumatic) strut similar to those found in hatchback cars. The combination of the torsion spring and strut provided the correct torque variation necessary to offset the variable torque of the door as it opened through a rotational angle of about 80 degrees. The torsion bar is most important in the first foot of movement from the bottom, where the geometry of the strut is pointed at the hinge and therefore at a mechanical disadvantage. As the spring relaxes through the door's rotation open, the strut gains a better moment arm and gradually takes over the effort. A correctly balanced door opens fully on its own by simply activating the door latch from the interior, exterior, or from an aftermarket wireless release. 
Other disadvantages of the system were not so easy to address. For example, the gull-wing design makes creating a convertible version of the car harder, as the hinges would be removed with the roof, and standard doors would be needed for the convertible. Mercedes did so when replacing the gullwing coupe altogether with the 300SL roadster in 1958. It was never a concern for DeLorean since no convertible version was ever planned.
It also makes sealing the car against water leaks and snow intrusion more difficult because of the shape and movement path of the door itself.

List of automobiles[edit]
The following is a (partial) list of production and kit automobiles with gull-wing doors:

Production cars[edit]

Autozam AZ-1 (Suzuki Cara)
Bricklin SV-1
Bristol Fighter
DMC DeLorean
De Tomaso Mangusta (engine compartment)
Gumpert Apollo
Hofstetter Turbo
Isdera Commendatore 112i
Melkus RS 1000
Melkus RS 2000
Mercedes-Benz 300SL
Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG
Pagani Huayra
Porsche 906
(NSU) Thurner RS
Tesla Model X (rear passenger doors only)
HiPhi X (part of the rear passenger doors only)
Quant E
Quant F
Bugatti Atlantic Type 64


Automobiles with gull-wing doors



Gumpert Apollo






Melkus RS 1000






Tesla Model X (and the DMC DeLorean in the background)




Kit cars[edit]
Gullwing doors are common in kit cars and many were made that are not included on this list. They were almost always one of the most mechanically problematic parts of these vehicles.[citation needed]


AMT Piranha
Bradley GTII
Dare DZ
Eagle SS Mk1
Elite Enterprises Laser 917, inspired by the Porsche 917
Embeesea Charger
Fiberfab Aztec 7, an American replica of the Italian Alfa Romeo Carabo concept car.
Fiberfab Caribee/Banshee
Innes Lee Scorpion K19
Pelland Sports
Replicar Cursor
RPB GT
Burton Car Company hardtop
Siva S160 Spyder

Aircraft[edit]
Cessna 350
Diamond DA62
Socata TB
Beriev Be-103
Stoddard-Hamilton Glasair II
Dornier Seastar
See also[edit]

Butterfly doors
Canopy door
Car door
List of cars with unusual door designs
Scissor doors
Sliding doors
Suicide doors
Swan doors

References[edit]


^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2014-04-18. Retrieved 2014-04-29.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ "Papillon and gull-wing door". 2013.

^ "Socata Trinidad GT: A beautiful little French retractable with a certain je ne sais quoi", Plane & Pilot retrieved 3 August 2011

^ Knut Grimsrud. "DeLorean Frequently Asked Questions – Technical Information". Dmcnews.com. Archived from the original on 2021-04-02. Retrieved 2009-12-08.

^ "Volvo Concept Car". Volvo Car France. Retrieved March 2, 2004.

^ Valdes-Dapena, Peter (October 2, 2015). "Tesla's Falcon Wing doors have a mind of their own". CNNMoney.

^ "Why Don't More Cars Have Gullwing Doors?". Popular Mechanics. 30 September 2015.

^ "Bricklin Specifications". Saintjohn.nbcc.nb.ca. Archived from the original on 2011-09-27. Retrieved 2011-11-26.


External links[edit]
 Media related to Automobiles with gull-wing doors at Wikimedia Commons
vteAutomotive designPart of a series of articles on carsBodyFramework
Backbone chassis
Beltline
Body-on-frame
Bumper
Dagmar
Cabrio coach
Chassis
Continental tire
Crumple zone
Fender
ponton
skirts
Grille
Hood
scoop
shaker
Monocoque
Overhang
Pillar
Platform
Quarter panel
Roof
rack
Spoiler
Stressed member engine
Subframe
Tonneau
Trunk lid
Compartments
Hood/bonnet
Trunk/boot/dickie
Doors
Butterfly
Canopy
Gull-wing
Scissor
Sliding
Suicide
Swan
Glass
Glass run channel
Greenhouse
Opera window
Power window
Quarter glass
Sunroof
Windshield/windscreen
washer fluid
wiper
Other elements
List of auto parts
Bumper sticker
Curb feeler
Front-end bra
Hood ornament
Instruments
Japan black
Nerf bar
Omniview technology
Run-flat tire
Tire/tyre
spare
Geometry
Approach and departure angles
Breakover angle
Overhang
Ride height
Roll center
Turning radius
Weight distribution
ExteriorequipmentLighting
Daytime running lamp
Headlamp
hidden
high-intensity discharge
sealed beam
trafficators
Automotive light bulb types
Other elements
Horn
Tow hitch
Window deflector
Wing mirror
power side-view mirror
Legal
Registration plate
vanity plate
Theft
Vehicle identification number (VIN)

 Category
 Commons
 Portal





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gull-wing_door&oldid=1074772636"
Categories: Automobiles with gull-wing doorsCar doorsHidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as titleArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAll articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from April 2013All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2012Commons category link is on Wikidata






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




In other projects


Wikimedia Commons




Languages


العربيةDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ItalianoNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнська中文
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 2 March 2022, at 03:03 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










