



Scissor doors - Wikipedia









































Scissor doors

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Type of car door
 The Lamborghini Aventador
 The Lamborghini Countach
Scissor doors (also called flap doors, wing doors, beetle-wing doors, turtle doors, switchblade doors, swing-up doors, upswing doors, Lamborghini doors,[1] and Lambo doors) are automobile doors that rotate vertically at a fixed hinge at the front of the door,[2] rather than outward as with a conventional door.[1]

Contents

1 History
2 Advantages
3 Disadvantages
4 Types

4.1 Vertical Lift System
4.2 130 degrees
4.3 Scissor-conventional door hybrid


5 In popular culture
6 See also
7 References
8 External links


History[edit]
 The Alfa Romeo Carabo concept car was the first vehicle to use scissor doors
The first vehicle to feature scissor doors was the 1968 Alfa Romeo Carabo concept car, designed by Bertone's Marcello Gandini. The door style was dictated by Gandini's desire for an innovative design, and by his concern over the car's extremely poor rear visibility. In order to reverse the car, the driver would be able to lift the door and lean his upper body out of the hatch in order to see behind the car. The first production car to feature the doors was a Lamborghini, Gandini's Countach; the sports car's wide chassis created similar problems to those found on the Carabo, calling for the unusual door configuration. This sports car was quite impractical for real life, as due to unusual design it was impossible to backup without doors open wide. So, such doors were originally offered as a practical measure that helped the driver. Besides, traditional swing-open doors would make it more difficult to get out of the vehicle due to high door sills. The doors were used on the Countach's successor, the Diablo, on its replacement, the Murciélago, and on a low-production run derivative of the Murciélago called the Reventón.[3] The Centenario is the latest Lamborghini car to feature the trademark doors. Having used the exotic door style for several of its cars, the Italian manufacturer has become synonymous with the implementation of scissor doors, which are sometimes colloquially referred to as "Lambo doors".[3]

 2006 Smart Roadster with prepared panel and scissor doors.
Today many aftermarket companies are specialized in production of scissor door conversion kits for regular production cars that originally come with regular doors. A common scissor door conversion kit (also known as a "Lambo-door" kit) includes model specific redesigned door hinges and gas filled shocks. Such kits are usually bolt-on or weld on and require some modifications to front bumpers and door panels. Original door panels are not replaced, so a vehicle looks standard from the outside, when the doors are closed.

 The Alfa Romeo Pandion concept car with rear-hinged scissor doors
Advantages[edit]
Offers the possibility of operating the car with the door open, in a manner that would be difficult or impossible in a car with conventional doors.
Because the doors stay within the car's track throughout their range of movement, they are useful when parking in tight spaces. A gull-wing door style offers similar usability, but the doors swing out from the car's area slightly.
The hinge is placed in a similar location to a conventional door, so a convertible version of the car is possible with the same door style.[4]
Reduces the dooring hazard to cyclists.
Disadvantages[edit]
The cost of manufacturing the door hinge can be more than that of a conventional door.
The door still impedes access/egress much more than a gullwing and, in some cases, more than a conventional door.
If the height of the parking lot ceiling is insufficient, a car door may come into contact with it when it opens.
In the event of a rollover, emergency egress may be more difficult than with conventional doors, or impossible.
Types[edit]
There are different types of scissor doors. The conventional type rotates to 90 degrees.[5] Scissor doors can be powered and they usually are.

Vertical Lift System[edit]
VLS doors have a scissor door configuration. The biggest difference is that they are designed to initially open slightly outward before opening upward to allow the top edge of the door to clear the door frame and A-pillar.[1] Although butterfly doors also move upwards and outwards, VLS doors are not the same as butterfly doors as VLS doors move outward only a small degree compared to butterfly doors.

130 degrees[edit]
Although conventional scissor doors rotate to 90 degrees, some can rotate up to 130 degrees;[6] these are commonly used for modified cars. Such scissor doors have the benefit of not obstructing the entrance or exit to the car as much as conventional scissor doors. VLS doors also can be made to rotate to 130 degrees.

Scissor-conventional door hybrid[edit]
Some aftermarket example scissor doors are also designed so they can open either vertically (scissor door) or horizontally (conventional door), as the user chooses. Such doors allow the user to gain the benefits of both types of door, choosing to open the doors in whichever style is best suited to the situation.[citation needed]

In popular culture[edit]
Scissor doors are widely noted as a status symbol in popular culture.  In 2012, Migos released a track called "Lambo Doors," in the first line referring to an observer who has never seen such high-status doors.[7]  In 2017, Rick Ross released a track called "Lamborghini Doors," in which he notes a number of objects that are rising up like the titular doors.[8] In the TV series Silicon Valley, a character remarks that he feels poor when he has regular car doors, rather than doors that go "like this" (gesturing as if his arms were gull-wing doors) or "like this" (gesturing as if his arms were scissor doors), leading to other commentators referring to scissor doors as "billionaire doors".[9]

See also[edit]

Butterfly doors
Canopy door
Gull-wing doors
List of cars with unusual door designs
Sliding doors
Suicide doors
Swan doors

References[edit]


^ a b c "Automotive door styles". Deftracing.com. Retrieved 2011-11-26.

^ "Gadget". Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. May 27, 2006. Retrieved 2013-12-26.

^ a b "Lamborghini on Piston Heads". Pistonheads.com. 2002-06-11. Retrieved 2011-11-26.

^ "Butterfly Doors". Scissor Doors Inc. Retrieved 2013-12-26.

^ 90 Degree Doors.

^ "130 Degree doors". Customlotuselise.com. 2011-10-22. Retrieved 2011-11-26.

^ "Lambo Doors Paroles – MIGOS – GreatSong". GREATSONG : Paroles de Chansons Officielles et Traduction musique (in French). Retrieved 2020-09-12.

^ "Rick Ross Ft. Meek Mill & Anthony Hamilton - Lamborghini Doors [VIDEO]". Hot97. 2017-09-03. Retrieved 2020-09-12.

^ "Cars with billionaire doors". Field Notes: The Turo blog. 2017-04-21. Retrieved 2020-09-12.


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Automobiles with scissor doors.

vteAutomotive designPart of a series of articles on carsBodyFramework
Backbone chassis
Beltline
Body-on-frame
Bumper
Dagmar
Cabrio coach
Chassis
Continental tire
Crumple zone
Fender
ponton
skirts
Grille
Hood
scoop
shaker
Monocoque
Overhang
Pillar
Platform
Quarter panel
Roof
rack
Spoiler
Stressed member engine
Subframe
Tonneau
Trunk lid
Compartments
Hood/bonnet
Trunk/boot/dickie
Doors
Butterfly
Canopy
Gull-wing
Scissor
Sliding
Suicide
Swan
Glass
Glass run channel
Greenhouse
Opera window
Power window
Quarter glass
Sunroof
Windshield/windscreen
washer fluid
wiper
Other elements
List of auto parts
Bumper sticker
Curb feeler
Front-end bra
Hood ornament
Instruments
Japan black
Nerf bar
Omniview technology
Run-flat tire
Tire/tyre
spare
Geometry
Approach and departure angles
Breakover angle
Overhang
Ride height
Roll center
Turning radius
Weight distribution
ExteriorequipmentLighting
Daytime running lamp
Headlamp
hidden
high-intensity discharge
sealed beam
trafficators
Automotive light bulb types
Other elements
Horn
Tow hitch
Window deflector
Wing mirror
power side-view mirror
Legal
Registration plate
vanity plate
Theft
Vehicle identification number (VIN)

 Category
 Commons
 Portal





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scissor_doors&oldid=1054661836"
Categories: Car doorsHidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2010Commons category link is on Wikidata






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




In other projects


Wikimedia Commons




Languages


DeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어ქართული日本語PolskiPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 11 November 2021, at 11:16 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










