



Doors of Perception - Wikipedia
































Doors of Perception

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Conference
For the book by Aldous Huxley, see The Doors of Perception.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Doors of Perception" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Doors of Perception is a design conference in Europe and India which brought together grassroots innovators to work with designers to imagine sustainable futures – and take practical steps to meet basic needs in new and sustainable ways. Its founder and first director is John Thackara. 
This hybrid community of practice was inspired by two related questions: "we know what new technology can do, but what is it for?" and, "how do we want to live?". The results are published on the Doors of Perception website,[1] and discussed at the Doors of Perception conference.
Numerous people and organizations contributed over the years to the conferences and its organisation. The first editions were supported by the Netherlands Design Institute[2] and Mediametic[3] and people such as Jules Marshall and Gert Staal. In the new millennium the Center for Knowledge Societies organized three of the later conferences in India.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Key Doors of Perception events
1.2 The separate editions
1.3 Hong Kong Design Task Force. 2000
1.4 Interaction Design Institute Ivrea, Italy, 2001–04
1.5 Designs of The Time (Dott 07) North East England 2005–08
1.6 City Eco Lab (St Etienne, France) 2007–08


2 References
3 External links


History[edit]
Key Doors of Perception events[edit]
The first Doors of Perception from 1993 to 2000 took place in Amsterdam. After the first edition they all had a theme of their own. The first conference and theme were:

Doors 1 (Amsterdam, 1993)
Doors 2 "Home" (Amsterdam, 1994)
Doors 3 "Info-Eco" (Amsterdam, 1994)[3][4]
Doors 4 "Speed" (Amsterdam, 1996)
Doors 5 "Play" (Amsterdam, 1998)
Doors 6 "Lightness" (Amsterdam, 2000)
In the year 2000 a dual conference was held in India, called 'Doors East,' and in the year 2002 there were two conferences as well. The tradition to focus on one central theme continued. 

Doors East  (Ahmedabad, India, 2000)
Doors 7 "Flow" (Amsterdam, 2002)
Doors East 2 "Tomorrow's Services" (Bangalore, 2002)
Doors 8 "Infra" (Bangalore, 2005)
Doors 9 "Food" (Delhi 2007)
The separate editions[edit]
In every edition multiple subjects were under debate, such as: 

1993
Tomorrow's Literacies - lectures and exhibition at Frankfurt Book Fair
Eternally Yours - conference and book on product endurance
The New Old report and conference (with UK DesignAge Network)
Materials of Invention: seminar series and book
The Cultural Economy Of The Applied Arts - report
Design And The Culture Industries - international professional meeting
Doors of Perception 1: plus DoP CDRom
1994
European Community Design Prize  (with EU)
European Design Industry Summit (with EU)
Design Across Europe - report on the European design industry
Toshio Iwai: Media Artist - exhibition for opening of Institute's building
Action-Reaction - exhibition in Japan
Doors of Perception 2 "Home"
Smart Matter - smart materials seminar, with Stedelijk Museum
1995
Doors of Perception 3-  "Info-Eco"
The Flat Space - exhibition and CDRom of design for electronic screens
The Prototype- workshop series
From Dada To Data, conference, with Virtual Platform & Council of Europe
1996
World Internet Expo: Dutch Pavilion
Doors of Perception 4 -  "Speed"
Legible City - conference on cities and information
Things That Think : design/business workshops on smart materials
Doors of Perception 4 -  'Speed'
1997
Design In The Knowledge Economy - seminar series
The Flat Space 2 - screen design futures
European Design Industry Summit
European Design Prize
Winners! - book published
Wisseltroom - design scenarios for the future of mobility
Eternally Yours – conference and book on long-life products
1998
Doors of Perception 5 - "play"
O2 Website - for eco-designers worldwide
Lightness – book + lectures
Young Designers and Industry 18 European companies + scenarios
From Practice To Policy - new media conference with Virtual Platform
1999
Presence – European project on elderly and internet
Maypole - European project on social computing
Trespassers - publication on design scenarios for sustainability
Wisselstroom  - design scenarios for transport intersections
Kust op de Kaart - website and knowledge map of coastal projects
If/Then - Europe/USA publication of "yearbook of the near future"
Hong Kong Design Task Force. 2000[edit]
Thackara was the expert advisor to the Hong Kong Design Task Force (chair: Victor Lo) which developed a new innovation and research policy for the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. The task force plotted the best way for Hong Kong and China to move up the value chain from a product-based to a service-and-flow based economy. Following the report, Hong Kong launched a "DesignSmart" initiative with the creation of a HK$250million (25 million euros) fund.

Interaction Design Institute Ivrea, Italy, 2001–04[edit]
Thackara was an advisor and then served on the start-up Steering Committee (chaired by Franco Debenedetti) of this start-up postgraduate institute founded by Telecom Italia. Its founding director was Gillian Crampton Smith.  Thackara's specific tasks were to help develop and articulate the institute's basic concept and organisational form; define and articulate the roles of, and benefits to, industry sponsors; organize an international workshop of experts to refine the research programme; and produce an inaugural event

Designs of The Time (Dott 07) North East England 2005–08[edit]
During 2005–2007 Thackara was programme director of Designs of the Time (Dott 2007) in North East England. Dott 07 was a two-year programme of sustainability projects commissioned by the Design Council and the region's economic Regional development agency, One NorthEast. Dott 07 culminated in a two-week festival on the banks of the River Tyne in North East England and was visited by 30,000 people. Dott was inspired by two questions: "what might life in a sustainable region be like? (and) what design steps might get us there?".

City Eco Lab (St Etienne, France) 2007–08[edit]
As Commissioner of France's main design biennial, Thackara curated an event called City Eco Lab. Conceived as a 'nomadic market of projects’, City Eco Lab made projects visible to the wider populace and started people talking about ways they might be improved or about doing similar projects themselves. 46 live projects from the St Etienne region were shown side-by-side with best practice projects from other parts of the world. The event was hosted by the Cite du Design; its designers were Exyzt and Gaelle Gabillet.

References[edit]


^ Doors of Perception website.

^ Doors of Perception, “NRC Handelsblad”, 8 November 1995. (in Dutch)

^ a b Ineke Schwartz, "Digitaal en milieu vinden elkaar," de Volkskrant, 's-Hertogenbosch, 1995/11/04, p. 17. (in Dutch)

^ Mark van Driel, "Eco-dictator zal wereld redden". Het Parool. Amsterdam, 1995/11/08, p. 27.(in Dutch)


External links[edit]
Doors of Perception
DOTT




Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Doors_of_Perception&oldid=1079497821"
Categories: Design institutionsHidden categories: Articles with Dutch-language sources (nl)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from October 2019All articles needing additional references






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




Languages



Add links






 This page was last edited on 27 March 2022, at 03:13 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










