



Door-to-door - Wikipedia









































Door-to-door

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sales and canvassing technique
This article is about the sales technique. For the travelling salesman problem in mathematics, see travelling salesman problem.
"Door to door" redirects here. For other uses, see Door to Door (disambiguation).
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Door-to-door" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (November 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article or section appears to be slanted towards recent events. Please try to keep recent events in historical perspective and add more content related to non-recent events. (November 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 Members of the Dutch political party GroenLinks canvassing door-to-door in Groningen
Door-to-door is a canvassing technique that is generally used for sales, marketing, advertising, evangelism or campaigning, in which the person or persons walk from the door of one house to the door of another, trying to sell or advertise a product or service to the general public or gather information. People who use this sales approach are often known as traveling salesmen, or by the archaic name drummer (someone who "drums up" business), and the  technique is also sometimes called direct sales. A variant of this involves cold calling first, when another sales representative attempts to gain agreement that a salesperson should visit.
Historically, this was a major method of distributing goods outside large towns, with the salesmen, often self-employed known as pedlars or peddlers, also hawkers.  With the huge growth of retail shops in the 19th century, it became less important, and the development of mail order and finally sales via the internet gradually reduced its significance in advanced economies except in a few fields, such as repairs and improvements to homes.

Contents

1 Model
2 Banning and regulation
3 Revival
4 Law enforcement and detective work
5 Religious work
6 See also
7 References


Model[edit]
Products or services sold door-to-door are generally in one of seven industries: cable, telecommunications, solar, energy, security, landscaping and construction.[1] There are also many multi-level marketing products sold door-to-door.[2] The industries accounting for the largest share of direct-sales revenue include construction and telecommunications.[3] The largest subset of these would be the home improvement products/services where items sold could be new or repaired roofs, siding, new replacement windows, and decorative stone. As of 2008[update] the business model of many companies that participate in this type of direct marketing has changed with the growth of the Information Age. Products sold door-to-door are now more likely to be more subtle in nature: such as sheets of coupons to events or local businesses, season tickets to local professional sports teams (both of these are known in the industry as "Cert [or certificate] Sales", or subscriptions to home television services or broadband internet services. Telecommunications companies like Verizon Communications (FiOS), Comcast (Cable television and internet) and AT&T (U-verse) all contract with various marketing companies for nationwide sales fulfillment at the residential level. While the practice of the salesman carrying a bag of goods on his shoulder to sell to the public declined with advances made in technology and internet selling, there has been a resurgence of door-to-door selling in recent years, especially in the energy and solar industries (SolarCity) (Vivint Solar).[4][5]

Banning and regulation[edit]
In the United States, some communities attempted to criminalize this form of selling by passing what is known as a Green River Ordinance which bans all door-to-door sales.  In 1933, the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit upheld such a law valid [6] but in 1976 the Supreme Court extended the First Amendment to commercial speech[7] and in 1980 set forth a four-pronged test regarding the regulation of door-to-door selling:[8]

The pitch itself must not regard things that are in themselves illegal and must be truthful to be protected by the First Amendment.[9]
Assertive governmental interest is substantial.
The regulation directly advances point 2.
If the regulation is necessary to serve that interest (i.e. demonstrating “no solicitation” signs and already existing trespass laws are not sufficient).
If a regulation meets these criteria, it is most likely legal.

Revival[edit]
In 2011, door-to-door sales was named one of the top 10 dead or dying career paths with an 18 percent decline in positions expected by 2018.[10] Instead, between 2012-2013 door-to-door sales positions started growing 34% year-over-year.[1] In 2017 the market is believed to be worth $36 billion, an increase of $7.7 billion since 2009 (or $4 billion if adjusted for inflation).[11][12] As of 2017, the research shows that 20.5 million people in the United States have signed agreements with direct selling companies making them eligible to purchase discounted products and resell them that at a profit, and to sponsor others individuals who also can sell the products.[12]
New technologies have also changed door-to-door sales' efficacy and appeal for organizations. Expansive databases of American households pull together demographic information, consumer data, and past-canvassing profiles to allow precise targeting of potential buyers. Corporations no longer knock on all the doors in an area, instead they focus on people most likely to buy their products or services.[13]

Law enforcement and detective work[edit]
Police detectives many times will go door-to-door at residences that exist nearby a crime scene, to see if the victim or perp may have known (or may have been known by) any of the residents in the general vicinity, or to gather information from potential witnesses.[14]

Religious work[edit]
Further information: Approaches to evangelism
The Bible records that Jesus sent out his disciples to evangelize by visiting peoples homes in pairs of two believers (cf. Luke 10:1–12).[15]
Accordingly, in Christianity, Methodist churches aligned with the holiness movement engage in door-to-door evangelism; in this tradition, it is frequently referred to as "calling".[16] Baptist congregations are known for door-to-door evangelism as well. In both the Holiness Methodist and Baptist Christian traditions, those visiting people's homes commonly distribute gospel tracts to residents.[17]
Restorationist groups, such as Jehovah's Witnesses,   Seventh-Day Adventists and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, are known for door-to-door evangelizing and proselytizing.

See also[edit]



Look up door-to-door in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.

Canvassing
Solicitation
References[edit]


^ a b "Door-to-door solar sales is back—but why?". Solar Power World. 2016-10-04. Retrieved 2017-11-07.

^ "MLM Law -  Door-to-Door Sales- Attorney Specializing in Multilevel Marketing and Direct Selling Reese, Poyfair, Richards". www.mlmlaw.com. Retrieved 2017-11-07.

^ "A revival for door-to-door marketing". msnbc.com. 2003-11-12. Retrieved 2017-11-07.

^ Sweet, Cassandra. "SolarCity Aims to Cut Marketing Costs as Competition Heats Up". The Wall Street Journal (wsj.com). Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 2017-01-17.

^ "Door-todoor Sales: The Forgotten Channel". Boston Consulting Group.

^ Town of Green River v. Fuller Brush Co. (1933) 65 F.2d 112

^ Virginia State Board of Pharmacy v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council, Inc. (1976) 425 U.S. 748 (96 S.Ct. 1817)

^ Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp v. Public Service Comm. (1980) 447 U.S. 557, (100 S.Ct. 2343)

^ Edenfield v. Fane: Project 80’s Inc. v. Cit of Pocatello (1988) 876 F.2d 711.

^ Goudreau, Jenna (2011-01-18). "In Pictures: 10 Top Dead Or Dying Career Paths". Forbes. Retrieved 2017-11-07.

^ "Does Door-to-Door Selling Still Work? - SafeWise". www.safewise.com. Retrieved 2017-11-07.

^ a b Foit, Michael. "Direct Selling Comes Into a New Age". Retrieved 2017-11-07.

^ "DNV GL Webinar". Polisapp.com. Retrieved 2017-11-07.

^ Nyberg, Ramesh - Cover Story - Going Door to Door - Police Patrol - The Law Enforcement Magazine.  policemag.com. July 1, 2006. Retrieved September 19, 2016.

^ Rainer, Thom S. (1989). Evangelism in the twenty-first century: the critical issues. H. Shaw Publishers. p. 148. ISBN 978-0-87788-238-1.

^ Logan, J. S. (1957).  White, Stephen S. (ed.). "Prayer: the greatest spiritual power". Herald of Holiness. Nazarene Publishing House. 45 (44): 5.

^ 
Maynard, Mark (8 August 2019). "Pastor finds door-to-door evangelism still cool - Baptist Press". Baptist Press. Retrieved 8 February 2021.


vteMedia manipulationContext
Bias
Crowd psychology
Deception
Dumbing down
False balance
Half-truths
Machiavellianism
Media
Obfuscation
Orwellian
Persuasion
Manipulation (psychology)
Activism
Alternative media
Boycott
Call-out culture
Cancel culture
Civil disobedience
Culture jamming
Demonstrations
Deplatforming
Guerrilla communication
Hacktivism
Internet
Media
Occupations
Petitions
Protests
Youth
Advertising
Billboards
False
Infomercials
Mobiles
Modeling
Radio
Sex
Slogans
Testimonials
TV
Criticism of advertising
Annoyance factor
CensorshipMedia regulation
Books
Broadcast law
Burying of scholars
Catch and kill
Corporate
Cover-ups
Euphemism
Films
Historical negationism
Internet
Political
Religious
Self
Hoaxing
Alternative facts
April Fools'
Deepfake
Fake news
websites
Fakelore
Fictitious entries
Forgery
Gaslighting
List
Literary
Photograph manipulation
Racial
Urban legend
Virus
Marketing
Branding
Loyalty
Product
Product placement
Publicity
Research
Word of mouth
News media
Agenda-setting
Broadcasting
Circus
Cycle
False balance
Infotainment
Managing
Narcotizing dysfunction
Newspeak
Pseudo-event
Scrum
Sensationalism
Tabloid journalism
Political campaigning
Advertising
Astroturfing
Attack ad
Canvassing
Character assassination
Dog-whistle politics
Election promises
Lawn signs
Manifestos
Name recognition
Negative
Push polling
Smear campaign
Wedge issue
Propaganda
Bandwagon
Crowd manipulation
Disinformation
Fearmongering
Framing
Indoctrination
Loaded language
Lying press
National mythology
Rally 'round the flag effect
Techniques
Psychological warfare
Airborne leaflets
False flag
Fifth column
Information (IT)
Lawfare
Political
Public diplomacy
Sedition
Subversion
Public relations
Cult of personality
Doublespeak
Non-apology apology
Reputation management
Slogans
Sound bites
Spin
Transfer
Understatement
Weasel words
Corporate propaganda
Sales
Cold calling
Door-to-door
Pricing
Product demonstrations
Promotion
Promotional merchandise
Telemarketing
Related
Influence-for-hire
Media bias
United States
Media concentration
Media democracy
Media ecology
Media ethics
Media franchise
Media influence
Media proprietor

Authority control National libraries
France (data)
Germany
United States
Japan
Other
SUDOC (France)
1





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Door-to-door&oldid=1076617513"
Categories: Personal sellingNon-store retailingHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from June 2013All articles needing additional referencesArticles with limited geographic scope from November 2019United States-centricArticles slanted towards recent events from November 2019Articles with multiple maintenance issuesArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2008All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiers






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




Languages


العربيةDeutschFrançais한국어日本語PolskiPortuguêsSuomiSvenskaاردو
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 12 March 2022, at 02:07 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










