



Suicide door - Wikipedia









































Suicide door

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Automobile door hinged at its rear rather than the front
 A suicide door on a Delahaye Type 135
 Lincoln Continental with rear suicide doors, left side doors open
A suicide door is an automobile door hinged at its rear rather than the front.[1][2] Such doors were originally used on horse-drawn carriages,[3] but are rarely found on modern vehicles, primarily because they are perceived as being less safe than a front-hinged door.
Initially standard on many models, later they became popularized in the custom car trade.[4] Automobile manufacturers call the doors coach doors (Rolls-Royce and Lincoln),[2] flexdoors (Opel),[5] freestyle doors (Mazda),[2] rear access doors (Saturn),[2] or simply describe them as rear-hinged doors.[1]

Contents

1 History
2 Modern use
3 Advantages
4 Disadvantages
5 See also
6 References


History[edit]
 The Fiat 600 Multipla with front suicide doors, right side doors open. Note that all four doors are connected to the B-pillars.
Rear-hinged doors were common on cars manufactured in the first half of the 20th century,[1] including the iconic Citroën Traction Avant. In the era before seat belts, the accidental opening of such doors meant that there was a greater risk of falling out of the vehicle compared to front-hinged doors, where airflow pushed the doors closed rather than opening them further.[2]
Rear-hinged doors were especially popular with mobsters in the gangster era of the 1930s, supposedly owing to the ease of pushing passengers out of moving vehicles with the air around the moving car holding the door open, according to Dave Brownell, the former editor of Hemmings Motor News.[2]
After World War II, rear-hinged doors were mostly limited to rear doors of four-door sedans. The best-known use of rear-hinged doors on post-World War II American automobiles was the Lincoln Continental 4 door convertibles and  sedans (1961–1969), Cadillac Eldorado Brougham  1956–1959 four-door sedans, and Ford Thunderbird 1967–1971 four-door sedans.[2]   The British Rover P4 used rear-hinged doors at the rear. German Goggomobil saloons and coupes had two-door bodies with rear-hinged doors until 1964.[6] The French, hand-made Facel Vega Excellence offered a four-door hardtop with a Chrysler-sourced Hemi V8 beginning in 1954.

Modern use[edit]
 2010 Opel Meriva
Pickup trucks are the only modern vehicle type that widely uses rear-hinged doors. The Ford F-150 as of the 2021 model year is available with rear-hinged doors at the rear. In 2003, the new Rolls-Royce Phantom car (sold in the United Kingdom) reintroduced independent rear-hinged doors in luxury vehicle applications. Other luxury models with rear-hinged  doors include the Spyker D8 and the Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe four-seat convertible. The most recent mass-produced model with such doors may be the Opel Meriva,[7] followed by the Rolls-Royce Cullinan in 2018, and a few Chinese electric vehicles including the Singulato iS6 in 2018 and HiPhi X in 2020.[8][9] Lincoln announced that 80 limited-edition 2019 Continentals would be made with "coach" doors, marking the Continental's 80th anniversary. "A limited number of additional Continental Coach Door Edition sedans will be available for the 2020 model year, too..."[10]
In recent years, rear-hinged rear doors that are held closed by the front doors, and cannot be opened until released by opening the front door on the same side (hinged at the front) have appeared on a number of vehicles. Such doors may be referred to as clamshell doors. Examples include extended-cab pickup trucks, the Saturn SC, Saturn Ion Quad Coupe, Honda Element, Toyota FJ Cruiser, Nissan Juke, BMW i3, Mazda RX-8, Mazda MX-30[1] and Fiat 500 3+1.[11]
Rear passenger rear-hinged doors had long been used on Austin FX4 London taxis, discontinued on their successors the TX1, TXII and TX4, but reintroduced in the 2018 LEVC TX.
Several concept cars have featured rear-hinged doors, such as the Lincoln C, a hatchback with no B-pillar and rear-hinged doors at the rear, or the Carbon Motors Corporation E7, a police car with rear rear-hinged doors designed to aid officers getting handcuffed passengers in and out of the back seat. The Kia Naimo, an electric concept car, also has rear suicide doors.[12]
Other car manufacturers which have produced models with suicide doors include Citroën, Lancia,  Opel, Panhard, Rover, Saab, Saturn, Škoda, and Volkswagen.


Suicide doors



2021 HiPhi X






2013 BMW i3






Saturn Ion coupe 2002—2008






A Lincoln concept car (Lincoln C) from 2009 with rear suicide doors, left side doors open. Note that there is no B-pillar and therefore there are two pillars, A and C.




Advantages[edit]
 An open rear suicide door on a Rolls-Royce Ghost
Rear-hinged doors make entering and exiting a vehicle easier, allowing a passenger to enter by turning to sit and exit by stepping forward and out. This is important for passengers who need to make a dignified entrance; the UK State Bentley has rear-opening passenger doors that are broader than usual and open very wide, allowing the monarch to exit the car in a dignified way.[13]
In combination with traditional front doors, rear-hinged doors allow chauffeurs easier access to the rear door. In Austin FX4 taxis, drivers were able to reach the rear exterior door handle through the driver's window without getting out of the vehicle.[14]
Rear-hinged doors also allow a better position for a person installing a child seat into the back seat of a vehicle than conventional doors, while being simpler and cheaper to build than the sliding doors commonly used on minivans. The Opel Meriva B compact MPV introduced in 2010 had such doors.[citation needed]
The combination of front-hinged front doors and rear-hinged rear doors allows for a design without the B-pillar, creating a large opening for entering and exiting the vehicle.

Disadvantages[edit]
 Lloyd LT 600 van with a front suicide door
When front doors are directly adjacent to rear suicide doors, exiting and entering the vehicle can be awkward if people try to use the front and back doors at the same time.
There are also a number of safety hazards:

Aerodynamic factors forcing rear-hinged doors open at speed in older cars. In 1969, Consumer Reports reported this problem on a Subaru 360.[15]
If a person not wearing a seat belt falls out of a moving car with a coach door, the door can catch them and drag them along the road at speed, causing serious injuries.
If a person exits a vehicle while parallel parked and a car hits the door, the person would be crushed instead of the door being ripped off.
Car manufacturers mitigate these hazards with such safety features as seat belts, and locks requiring front-hinged doors be open before permitting rear-hinged doors to open.[4]

See also[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Automobiles with suicide doors.


Butterfly doors
Canopy doors
Gull-wing doors
List of cars with non-standard door designs
Scissor doors
Sliding doors
Swan doors

References[edit]


^ a b c d "Suicide Doors". Diseno-Art.com. Archived from the original on 25 January 2013. Retrieved 9 January 2013.

^ a b c d e f g Mayersohn, Norman (11 July 2003). "Don't Call Them Suicide Doors". The New York Times. Retrieved 9 January 2013.

^ Bird, Anthony; Hutton-Stott, Francis (1965). Lanchester Motorcars, A History. London: Cassell. p. 96.

^ a b Zimmerman, Martin (15 September 2007). "'Suicide doors' resurrected by car designers despite safety concerns". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 11 June 2009.

^ "New Meriva: unhinged". Top Gear. 5 January 2010. Retrieved 24 January 2011.

^ Goggomobil

^ Siler, Wes (5 January 2010). "Opel/Vauxhall Meriva: Giant Jelly Bean Gets Suicide Doors". Jalopnik.

^ Padeanu, Adrian (3 May 2018). "Singulato iS6 Electric SUV Has Suicide Doors And Huge Touchscreen". Motor1.com.

^ Anderson, Brad (14 August 2020). "Human Horizons HiPhi X 6-Seater Electric SUV Makes The Tesla Model X's Falcon Doors Look Normal". Carscoops.com.

^ Howard, Phoebe Wall (17 December 2018). "Lincoln Continental: A limited-edition design of 80 new cars for $100,000 each". Detroit Free Press. USA Today. Retrieved 17 December 2018.

^ Sergeev, Angel (22 October 2020). "Fiat 500 Electric 3+1 Debuts With Tiny Third Door". Motor1.com. Retrieved 29 October 2020.

^ Gorman, Michael (1 April 2011). "Kia Naimo concept EV debuts: 93mph, 124-mile range, and suicide doors". Engadget. Retrieved 6 January 2013.

^ Parkinson, Justin (17 April 2021). "Prince Philip: The State Bentley and five other features of the duke's funeral explained". BBC News.

^ Berridge, Declan (16 May 2020). "Austin FX4 Black Cab – taxi!". AROnline.

^ "The Subaru 360 (Not Acceptable)" (PDF). Consumer Reports. April 1969. pp. 220–222. Retrieved 24 January 2011.


vteAutomotive designPart of a series of articles on carsBodyFramework
Backbone chassis
Beltline
Body-on-frame
Bumper
Dagmar
Cabrio coach
Chassis
Continental tire
Crumple zone
Fender
ponton
skirts
Grille
Hood
scoop
shaker
Monocoque
Overhang
Pillar
Platform
Quarter panel
Roof
rack
Spoiler
Stressed member engine
Subframe
Tonneau
Trunk lid
Compartments
Hood/bonnet
Trunk/boot/dickie
Doors
Butterfly
Canopy
Gull-wing
Scissor
Sliding
Suicide
Swan
Glass
Glass run channel
Greenhouse
Opera window
Power window
Quarter glass
Sunroof
Windshield/windscreen
washer fluid
wiper
Other elements
List of auto parts
Bumper sticker
Curb feeler
Front-end bra
Hood ornament
Instruments
Japan black
Nerf bar
Omniview technology
Run-flat tire
Tire/tyre
spare
Geometry
Approach and departure angles
Breakover angle
Overhang
Ride height
Roll center
Turning radius
Weight distribution
ExteriorequipmentLighting
Daytime running lamp
Headlamp
hidden
high-intensity discharge
sealed beam
trafficators
Automotive light bulb types
Other elements
Horn
Tow hitch
Window deflector
Wing mirror
power side-view mirror
Legal
Registration plate
vanity plate
Theft
Vehicle identification number (VIN)

 Category
 Commons
 Portal







Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Suicide_door&oldid=1068707104"
Categories: Automotive styling featuresCar doorsHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2016Commons category link is on WikidataUse dmy dates from April 2020






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




In other projects


Wikimedia Commons




Languages


CatalàČeštinaDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançaisGalegoItaliano日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiРусскийSvenskaTürkçe
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 29 January 2022, at 22:52 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










