



Open-wheel car - Wikipedia









































Open-wheel car

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Type of automobile
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Open-wheel car" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Open-wheel car2018 Formula One car (McLaren MCL33) driven by Fernando AlonsoClassificationVehicleApplicationRecreation, sportsFuel sourceGasoline, electric, hydrogenPoweredYesSelf-propelledYesWheels4–6Axles2–4InventorRay Harroun
An open-wheel car (formula car, or often single-seater car in British English) is a car with the wheels outside the car's main body, and usually having only one seat. Open-wheel cars contrast with street cars, sports cars, stock cars, and touring cars, which have their wheels below the body or inside fenders. Open-wheel cars are built both for road racing and oval track racing. Street-legal open-wheel cars, such as the Ariel Atom, are very scarce as they are often impractical for everyday use.[1]

Contents

1 History
2 Design
3 Driving
4 Advantages
5 Gallery
6 Safety
7 References
8 See also


History[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (April 2015)
American racecar driver and constructor Ray Harroun was an early pioneer of the concept of a lightweight single-seater, open-wheel "monoposto" racecar.[2] After working as a mechanic in the automotive industry, Harroun began competitive professional racing in 1906, winning the AAA National Championship in 1910. He was then hired by the Marmon Motor Car Company as chief engineer, charged with building a racecar intended to race at the first Indianapolis 500, which he went on to win. He developed a revolutionary concept which would become the originator and forefather of the single-seater (i.e. monoposto) racecar design.[3][4] Harroun has also been credited by some as pioneering the rear-view mirror which appeared on his 1911 Indianapolis 500 winning car, though he himself claimed he got the idea from seeing a mirror used for a similar purpose on a horse-drawn vehicle in 1904.[5]

Design[edit]
A typical open-wheeler has a minimal cockpit, sufficient only to enclose the driver's body, with the head exposed to the air. In the Whelen Modified Tour and other short track modified series, the driver's head is contained in the car. In modern cars, the engine is often located directly behind the driver and drives the rear wheels; except in asphalt modified cars, such as the Whelen Modified Tour, where the engine is in front of the driver. Depending on the rules of the class, many types of open-wheelers have wings at the front and rear of the vehicle, as well as a very low and virtually flat undertray that helps achieve additional aerodynamic downforce pushing the car onto the road.  While many other categories of racing cars produce downforce, the top categories of open-wheel racing cars (particularly Formula One and Indycar) produce far more downforce relative to their mass than any other racing category, allowing much higher corner speeds on comparable tracks.
Some major races, such as the Singapore Grand Prix, Monaco Grand Prix (sanctioned by Formula One) and the Long Beach Grand Prix (sanctioned by IndyCar), are held on temporary street circuits. However, most open-wheel races are on dedicated road courses, such as Watkins Glen in the US, Nürburgring in Germany, Spa-Francorchamps in Belgium and Silverstone in Great Britain. In the United States, some top-level open-wheel events are held on ovals, of both short track and superspeedway variety, with an emphasis being placed more on speed and endurance than the maneuverability inherently required by road and street course events. The Whelen Modified Tour is the only opened wheeled race car series endorsed by NASCAR. This series races on most of NASCAR's most famous tracks in the United States. Other asphalt modified series race on short tracks in the United States and Canada, such as Wyoming County International Speedway in New York. The best-attended oval race in the world is the annual Indianapolis 500 (Indy 500) in Speedway, Indiana, sanctioned by IndyCar; in the United States, it is quite common to refer to open-wheel cars as IndyCars, or Champ Cars, because of their recognizable appearance and widespread popularity across America at the Indy 500.
Compared to covered-wheel race cars, open-wheeled cars allow more precise placement of the front wheels on the race course, as the tires are clearly visible to the driver. This allows the maximum potential of the cars to be wrung out during cornering and passing maneuvers. Furthermore, open-wheeled cars are less tolerant of vehicle-to-vehicle contact, which usually results in vehicle damage and retiring, whereas some level of contact is expected in covered-wheel racing, as for example in NASCAR. Open-wheeled drivers must be extremely precise to avoid contact.
Minimum weight requirements tend to be much lower than in categories that more closely resemble street-legal vehicles, such as sports cars, touring cars, and stock cars.  For instance, a Formula One must weigh 798 kilograms (1,759 lb);[6] the minimum weight for NASCAR is 1,500 kilograms (3,200 lb).[7]

Driving[edit]
Open-wheeled racing is among the fastest in the world. Formula One cars can reach speeds in excess of 360 kilometres per hour (220 mph). At Autodromo Nazionale Monza, Antônio Pizzonia of BMW Williams F1 team recorded a top speed of 369.9 kilometres per hour (229.8 mph) (over 102 m/s) in the 2004 Italian Grand Prix. Since the end of the V10 era in 2006, speeds like this have not been reached, with contemporary machinery reaching around 360 kilometres per hour (220 mph).[8] It is difficult to give precise figures for the absolute top speeds of Formula One cars, as the cars do not have speedometers as such and the data are not generally released by teams.  The 'speed traps' on fast circuits such as Monza give a good indication, but are not necessarily located at the point on the track where the car is travelling at its fastest. BAR Honda team recorded an average top speed of 400 kilometres per hour (250 mph) in 2006 at Bonneville Salt Flats with unofficial top speed reaching 413 kilometres per hour (257 mph) using their modified BAR 007 Formula One car. Speeds on ovals can range in constant excess of 210–220 miles per hour (340–350 km/h), and at Indianapolis in excess of 230 miles per hour (370 km/h). In 2000, Gil de Ferran set the one-lap qualifying record of 241.428 miles per hour (388.541 km/h) at California Speedway.[9] Even on tight non-oval street circuits such as the Grand Prix of Toronto, open-wheel Indy Cars attain speeds of 190 miles per hour (310 km/h).
Regardless of top speeds, Formula One open-wheel race cars hold the outright lap record at the circuits which they race due to their combination of top speed, acceleration, and cornering abilities.  For example, at the Monza Circuit the fastest lap in the 2021 Grand Prix (Daniel Ricciardo 1:24.812) is more than six seconds per lap faster than the fastest closed-wheel racing car, an LMP1 sports car, and more than 20 seconds per lap faster than the DTM touring car lap record.
Driving an open-wheel car is substantially different from driving a car with fenders. Virtually all Formula One and Indycar drivers spend some time in various open-wheel categories before joining either top series. Open-wheel vehicles, due to their light weight, aerodynamic capabilities, and powerful engines, are often considered the fastest racing vehicles available and among the most challenging to master. Wheel-to-wheel contact is dangerous, particularly when the forward edge of one tire contacts the rear of another tire: since the treads are moving in opposite directions (one upward, one downward) at the point of contact, both wheels rapidly decelerate, torquing the chassis of both cars and often causing one or both vehicles to be suddenly and powerfully flung upwards (the rear car tends to pitch forward, and the front car tends to pitch backward.) An example of this is the 2005 Chicagoland crash of Ryan Briscoe with Alex Barron.

Advantages[edit]
The lower weight of an open-wheel racecar allows for better performance. While the exposure of the wheels to the airstream causes a very high aerodynamic drag at high speeds, it allows improved cooling of the brakes, which is important on road courses with their frequent changes of pace.

Gallery[edit]




Caterham open wheeled sports car, derived from Lotus 7






Electric Formula E racing car (Spark SRT05e) racing for HWA Racelab






2010 Mercedes-Benz Formula One car






1994 Penske Indy Car






Ariel Atom sports car from UK






KTM X-Bow, road legal open wheeled sportscar






Asphalt Modified Short Track Race Car






Sprint cars






A Barlotti go-kart: a low-end open-wheel car






Nigel Mansell in a CART car at Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course, 1993




Safety[edit]
In 2018, several single seater series such as Formula One, Formula 2 (with their new Dallara F2 2018 chassis), and Formula E (with their new Spark SRT05e chassis) introduced a protection system to the cockpit called the "halo", a wishbone-shaped frame aimed to deflect debris away from a driver's head. Despite initial criticism, including for the reason of obstructing the driver's vision, it showed some praise in the Formula 2 sprint race in Catalunya when Nirei Fukuzumi spun and had the back of his car land on fellow countryman Tadasuke Makino's halo. In the Formula 1 Belgian Grand Prix, McLaren driver Fernando Alonso was sent airborne after being hit from behind by the Renault of Nico Hülkenberg and struck the halo of Sauber driver Charles Leclerc, thereby saving the Monegasque driver from a visor strike.[10]
In 2019, the newly-formed FIA Formula 3 Championship introduced a halo to their new chassis which was unveiled at the 2018 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.
In 2020, the Indycar Series adopted a halo combined with an aeroscreen, built by Red Bull Advanced Technologies. 
At the start of the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix, Romain Grosjean collided with Daniil Kvyat in which his car broke in two and burst into flames as it split the barrier. The halo helped prevent Grosjean from possible decapitation while it allowed him to escape from the fire.

References[edit]


^ Eric Brandt (11 July 2018). "Ariel Atom 4 Roadster Unveiled Packing 320-HP Honda Type R Engine". The Drive. Retrieved 9 August 2018.

^ swatson. "Harroun, Ray - Historic - 2000". Retrieved 17 April 2016.

^ "Ray Harroun Checks his Rear View Mirror". Retrieved 17 April 2016.

^ "1911 Marmon Wasp - Conceptcarz". conceptcarz.com. Retrieved 17 April 2016.

^ Davidson, Donald The Talk of Gasoline Alley (radio program). Accessed via WIBC (FM), 28 May 200

^ Koch, Matt (2022-03-17). "Minimum weight increase for 2022 F1 cars". Speedcafe. Retrieved 2022-04-20.

^ Weaver, Matt (2021-05-06). "Everything You Need to Know About NASCAR Next Gen". Autoweek. Retrieved 2022-04-20.

^ "Drivers hit record speeds in Mexico". Formula One Digital Media. Formula1.com. Oct 30, 2015. Retrieved 4 June 2016.

^ "De Ferran wins pole, sets record". Las Vegas Sun. October 28, 2000. Archived from the original on November 10, 2013.

^ Noble, Jonathan. "Halo saved Charles Leclerc from visor strike in Spa start crash". Autosport.com. Retrieved 2019-09-25.


See also[edit]
vteClasses of auto racingActive Formula racing
F1
F2
F3
F4
F500
Formula 1000
Formula Atlantic
Formula Car Challenge
Formula Continental
Formula E
Formula Ford
FF1600
Formula Regional
Formula Vee
IndyCar
Super Formula
Supermodified
BOSS GP
Tasman Series
Monoposto Racing Club
V de V Challenge Monoplace
Defunct Formula racing
F3000
F5000
Formula A (SCCA)
Formula B (SCCA)
Formula C (SCCA)
FCJ
Formula Dream
Formula Holden
Formula Junior
Formula Libre
Formula Mondial
Formula Pacific
Formula Super Vee
Australian National Formula
Grand Prix Masters
Active one-make formulae
CFGP
Ferrari Challenge
Formula Car Challenge
Formula Enterprise
Formula Renault
2.0L
Global MX-5 Cup
Indy Lights
Lamborghini Super Trofeo
MRF Challenge
Porsche Carrera Cup
SRF
Toyota Racing Series
Trofeo Maserati
USF2000
USF Juniors
FIA Formula 2 Championship
FIA Formula 3 Championship
S5000
W Series
Defunct one-make formulae
A1GP
ADAC Formel Masters
Audi R8 LMS Cup
Auto GP
Barber Pro
Formula Abarth
FA1
Formula Alfa
Formula Asia
Formula BMW
FC Euro Series
Formula König
Formula LGB
Swift
Hyundai
Formula Lightning
Formula Maruti
Formula Masters
China
Russia
Formula Mazda
Formula Nissan
3.5L
Formula Opel/Vauxhall
Formula Palmer Audi
Formula RUS
Formula Rolon
Grand Prix Masters
GP2
GP3
International Formula Master
Superleague Formula
World Series Formula V8 3.5
Karting
KF1
KF2
KF3
KZ1
KZ2
Superkart
Electric
Active touring car racing
WTCR
BTCC
Group F
Group G
Group H
Super 2000
Diesel 2000
NGTC (TCN-1)
TCR (TCN-2)
Stock Car Brasil
Stock Car Light
Supercars
Súper TC 2000
Defunct touring car racing
Appendix J
BTC-T
DTM
Group 1
Group 2
Group 5
Group A
Group C (Australia)
Group E
Group N
Group N (Australia)
Group S
Class 1
Super Touring (Class 2)
Superstars
V8Star
WTCC
Active stock car racing
ARCA
Allison Legacy Series
IMCA Sport Compact
Late model
Legends
Modifieds
NASCAR
Cup
Xfinity
Truck
Pinty's
Whelen Euro Series
PEAK Mexico
Super Stock
Street Stock
Superstar Racing Experience
Turismo Carretera
Defunct stock car racing
ASCAR Racing Series
AUSCAR
Oval racing
BriSCA F1
BriSCA F2
V8 Hotstox
Hot Rods
Superstocks
Sprint car racing
Midget car racing
Quarter Midget racing
Active rallying
Groups Rally
Group R-GT
Group N
Super 2000
Defunct rallying
Group 1
Group 2
Group 4
Group A
Group B
Group S
Group R
R5
Super 1600
World Rally Car
Active sports prototypes
DPi
LMDh
LMH
LMP
LMP2
LMP3
Clubmans
Group CN
Defunct sports prototypes
DP
Group 3
Group 4
Group 5
Group 6
Group 7
Group A Sports Cars
Group C
GC
GC-21
IMSA GTP
LMP
LMP1
LMPC
S2000
Active grand touring
LM GTE
GT3
GT2
GT4
GT500
GT300
Trans-Am
Defunct grand touring
Group 3
Group 4
Group 5
Group B
Group D Production Sports Cars
GT1 (1993–99)
GT2 (1993–99)
FIA GT1 (2000-12)
IMSA AAGT
IMSA GTO/GTS
IMSA GTU
IMSA GTX
Appendix K
Group D GT Cars
Active drag racing
Top Fuel Dragster (TF/D)
Top Alcohol Dragster (TA/D)
Top Fuel Funny Car (TF/FC)
Top Alcohol Funny Car (TA/FC)
Pro Stock (PS)
Pro Modified (Pro Mod)
Pro FWD
Super Comp/Quick Rod
Top Doorslammer
Defunct drag racing
A/FX (Factory Experimental)
Altered
Top Gas
Modified
Competition
Gas
Super Stock
Off-road racing
Baja Bug
Dune buggy
Rallycross
Autocross
Trophy truck
Group T4
Truggy
Side by Side (UTV)





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open-wheel_car&oldid=1084128286"
Categories: Open wheel racingOpen wheel racing carsHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from September 2014All articles needing additional referencesArticles to be expanded from April 2015All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxes






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




In other projects


Wikimedia Commons




Languages


العربيةČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolفارسیGalegoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoLietuviųBahasa Melayu日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்TürkçeУкраїнськаاردو中文
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 22 April 2022, at 18:04 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










