



Prayer wheel - Wikipedia









































Prayer wheel

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Devotional tool in Buddhism
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Prayer wheel" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (November 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 Prayer wheels in Mussoorie, India
 Prayer wheels at the Datsan Gunzechoinei Buddhist temple in St. Petersburg, Russia
 Pilgrim with prayer wheel, Tsurphu Monastery, 1993
A prayer wheel is a cylindrical wheel (Tibetan: འཁོར་ལོ།, Wylie: 'khor lo) on a spindle made from metal, wood, stone, leather, or coarse cotton, widely used in Tibet and areas where Tibetan culture is predominant.
Traditionally, a mantra is written in Tibetan language, on the outside of the wheel. The mantra Om mani padme hum is most commonly used, but other mantras may be used as well.
Also sometimes depicted are dakinis, Protectors and very often the eight auspicious symbols (ashtamangala). At the core of the cylinder is a "life tree" often made of wood or metal with certain mantras written on or wrapped around it. Many thousands (or in the case of larger prayer wheels, millions) of mantras are then wrapped around this life tree.
According to the Tibetan Buddhist tradition based on the lineage texts regarding prayer wheels, spinning such a wheel will have much the same meritorious effect as orally reciting the prayers.[citation needed]

Contents

1 Nomenclature and etymology
2 Origins and history
3 Practice
4 Types

4.1 Human-powered

4.1.1 Handheld wheels
4.1.2 Large wheels
4.1.3 Row installations


4.2 Powered by other means

4.2.1 Water wheels
4.2.2 Fire wheels
4.2.3 Wind wheels
4.2.4 Electric dharma wheels




5 Gallery
6 See also
7 References
8 Bibliography
9 External links


Nomenclature and etymology[edit]
Prayer wheel or mani wheel (Tibetan: མ་ནི་ཆོས་འཁོར་, Wylie: mani-chos-'khor). The Tibetan term is a contraction: "mani" itself is a contraction of Sanskrit cintamani; "chos" is Tibetan for dharma; and "'khor" or "'khorlo" means chakrano.
The common term, “prayer wheel” is a double misnomer. A long strip of rolled-up paper bearing printed or inscribed mantras rather than prayers, per se, is inside the cylinder. The term “mantra mill”, in contrast to “prayer wheel”, is perhaps a better translation of the Tibetan 'khor-lo, since a "mill" refers to a turning process that generates a particular output, in this case generating merit.[citation needed]

Origins and history[edit]
 A little boy rolling the prayer wheels at Swayambhunath, Nepal
The first prayer wheels, which are driven by wind, have been used in Tibet and China since the fourth century.[1] The concept of the prayer wheel is a physical manifestation of the phrase "turning the wheel of Dharma", which describes the way in which the Buddha taught.
Historians, such as Ferdinand D. Lessing [fr; de; sv], have argued that the prayer wheels developed from Chinese revolving bookcases (Chinese: 轉輪藏; pinyin: zhuàn lún zàng), popular among Buddhist monasteries.[2]
According to the Tibetan tradition, the prayer wheel lineage traces back to the famous Indian master, Nagarjuna. Tibetan texts also say that the practice was taught by the Indian Buddhist masters Tilopa and Naropa as well as the Tibetan masters Marpa and Milarepa.[3] Kawaguchi mentions in his book that the prayer wheel originated in the Mani Lhakhang where Je Tsongkhapa invented it.[4]
Prayer wheels originated[contradictory] from ‘The School of Shakyamuni sutra, volume 3 – pagoda and temple’[dubious  – discuss] which states that:

“those who set up the place for worship, use the knowledge to propagate the dharma to common people, should there be any man or woman who are illiterate and unable to read the sutra, they should then set up the prayer wheel to facilitate those illiterate to chant the sutra, and the effect is the same as reading the sutra”[5][better source needed]
Practice[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 Prayer wheels at Nechung Chok, Lhasa
According to the lineage texts on prayer wheels, prayer wheels are used to accumulate wisdom and merit (good karma) and to purify negativities (bad karma). In Buddhism, Buddhas and Bodhisattvas have created a variety of skillful means (upaya) to help bring practitioners ever closer to realizing enlightenment. The idea of spinning mantras relates to numerous Tantric practices whereby the Tantric practitioner visualizes mantras revolving around the nadis and especially around the meridian chakras such as the heart and crown. Therefore, prayer wheels are a visual aid for developing one's capacity for these types of Tantric visualizations.
The spiritual method for those practicing with a prayer wheel is very specific (with slight variations according to different Buddhist sects). The practitioner most often spins the wheel clockwise, as the direction in which the mantras are written is that of the movement of the sun across the sky. On rare occasions, advanced Tantric practitioners such as those of Senge Dongma, the Lion-Faced Dakini, spin prayer wheels counterclockwise to manifest a more wrathful protective energy. As the practitioner turns the wheel, it is best to focus the mind and repeat the Om Mani Padme Hum mantra. Not only does this increase the merit earned by the wheel's use, but it is a mind-stabilization technique that trains the mind while the body is in motion. Intoning the mani mantra with mindfulness and the "Bodhicitta" motivation dramatically enhances the effects of the prayer wheel. However, it is said that even turning it while distracted has benefits and merits, and it is stated in the lineage text that even insects that cross a prayer wheel's shadow will get some benefit.  Each revolution is as meritorious as reading the inscription aloud as many times as it is written on the scroll, and this means that the more Om Mani Padme Hum mantras that are inside a prayer wheel, the more powerful it is. It is best to turn the wheel with a gentle rhythm and not too fast or frantically. While turning smoothly, one keeps in mind the motivation and spirit of compassion and bodhichitta (the noble mind that aspires to full enlightenment for the benefit of all beings).
The benefits attributed to the practice of turning the wheel are vast. Not only does it help wisdom, compassion and bodhichitta arise in the practitioner, it also enhances siddhis (spiritual powers such as clairvoyance, precognition, reading others thoughts, etc.).The practitioner can repeat the mantra as many times as possible during the turning of the wheel, stabilizing a calm, meditative mind. At the end of a practice session, there is a Tibetan Buddhist tradition of dedicating any accumulated merits that one may have gathered during practice to the benefit of all sentient beings. Then Om Ah Hum 3 times. This is customary with Tibetans upon completing any Buddhist practice, including the practice of the prayer wheel.
Thubten Zopa Rinpoche has commented that installing a prayer wheel has the capacity to completely transform a place, which becomes "...peaceful, pleasant, and conducive to the mind."
Simply touching a prayer wheel is said to bring great purification to negative karmas and obscurations.[6]

Types[edit]
Human-powered[edit]
Handheld wheels[edit]
 An elderly Tibetan woman with a prayer wheel
The handheld prayer wheel (mani lag 'khor) has a cylindrical, generally sheet-metal body (often beautifully embossed) mounted on a metal shaft or pin set into a wooden or metal handle that turns on a circular bearing commonly made of Turbinella (conch) shell. The cylinder itself is affixed with a cord or chain terminating in a small weight allowing it to be spun by a slight rotation of the wrist. The weighted chain, known as a “governor” in Western technology, stabilizes the wheel and keeps it spinning with less input from the practitioner than would otherwise be the case. When the prayer wheel is spun in prayer, the mantras inside become potent with the person's intent, allowing the practitioner to accumulate wisdom and merit.[citation needed]

Large wheels[edit]
 A small prayer wheel shrine housing a large prayer wheel, Paro Taktsang, Bhutan
Prayer wheels larger than human size are to be seen in separate rooms in Tibetan Buddhist temples and can be set in motion by pilgrims. With the help of a small bell the number of revolutions can be counted. The cylinders of fixed prayer wheels are often inscribed with the formula “Om mani padme hum” (meaning “jewel in the lotus”) in ornamental Lantsa (Ranjana) letters.

Row installations[edit]
Many monasteries around Tibet have large, fixed, metal wheels set side by side in a row. Passersby can turn the entire row of wheels simply by sliding their hands over each one. They are set in motion by pilgrims who circumambulate the building in a clockwise direction.

Powered by other means[edit]
Water wheels[edit]
 Water-powered prayer wheel, Spiti valley, India
This type of prayer wheel is simply a prayer wheel that is turned by flowing water. The water that is touched by the wheel is said to become blessed and carries its purifying power into all life forms in the oceans and lakes that it feeds into.[citation needed]

Fire wheels[edit]
 Butter-lamp-powered prayer wheel, Manali, India
This wheel is turned by the heat of a candle or electric light. The light emitted from the prayer wheel then purifies the negative karmas of the living beings it touches.[citation needed]

Wind wheels[edit]
This type of wheel is turned by wind. The wind that touches the prayer wheel helps alleviate the negative karma of those it touches.[citation needed]

Electric dharma wheels[edit]
Play media Electric prayer wheels at Samye Ling in Scotland, 2009 (8 seconds)
Some prayer wheels are powered by electric motors. Thardo 'khorlo, as these electric wheels are sometimes known, contain one thousand copies of the mantra of Chenrezig and many copies of other mantras.[citation needed] The thardo 'khorlo can be accompanied by lights and music if one so chooses.
Electricity can certainly be considered similar to the above sources of energy for PW (water, fire, wind). The merit generated by the PW is due to the power of the Dharma Texts and Mantras; not necessarily the "power" which rotates them. These PW turn all day, all night, all through the year. The Lamas and practitioners who build, maintain and pay for the electricity rightly help to generate and dedicate the merit.[citation needed]

Gallery[edit]




Large prayer wheel being turned. Spiti






Prayer wheels at Samye Monastery.






Girls Turning the prayer wheels at Swayambhunath Stupa, Kathmandu.






Tibetan child with a prayer wheel






1905 illustration of monks with prayer wheels






Stupa & prayer wheels. Main street, McLeod Ganj.






Monk with prayer wheel. 1938






Prayer wheels at the base of the Potala in Lhasa, Tibet.






A Prayer wheel at Dukezong Temple in Shangri-La County, Yunnan.






Prayer Wheels in the Rumtek Monastery






A handcrafted, handheld wooden prayer wheel






Tibetan hand prayer wheel






Three prayer wheels in the coat of arms of Sir Edmund Hillary






Rumtek Monastery - Prayer Wheel






Rolling metal prayer wheels circling the Swayambhunath stupa, Kathmandu




See also[edit]

Maṇḍala
Pradakshina
Buddhist prayer beads
Stupa
Tibetan prayer wheel
Tibetan prayer flag
Wheel of Dharma
References[edit]


^ Lucas, Adam (2006). Wind, Water, Work: Ancient and Medieval Milling Technology. Brill Publishers. p. 105. ISBN 90-04-14649-0.

^ Goodrich 1942.

^ The Wheel of Great Compassion: The Practice of the Prayer Wheel in Tibetan Buddhism. Wisdom Publications. 2000.

^ Kawaguchi, Ekai (1910). "Three Years In Tibet". Nature. 82 (2098): 301. Bibcode:1910Natur..82..301W. doi:10.1038/082301a0. S2CID 3983162.

^ "Vairocana Buddha Prayer Wheel". Buddha Tooth Relic Temple and Museum. Archived from the original on 2013-07-29. Retrieved 2013-03-31.

^ "(Lorne Ladner, Lama Thubten | PDF | Vajrayana | Tibetan Buddhism". Scribd. Retrieved 2022-02-18.


Bibliography[edit]

Goodrich, L. Carrington (1942). "The Revolving Book-Case in China". Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies. 7 (2): 130–161. doi:10.2307/2717800. JSTOR 2717800.
Hunter, Alwin (1985). "Tibetan Prayer Wheels". Arts of Asia. 15 (1): 74–81.
Ladner, Lorne (2000). Wheel of Great Compassion. Wisdom Publications.
Lucas, Adam (2006). Wind, Water, Work: Ancient and Medieval Milling Technology. Brill Publishers. p. 105. ISBN 90-04-14649-0.
Martin, Dan (1987). "On the Origin and Significance of the Prayer Wheel According to two Nineteenth-Century Tibetan Literary Sources" (PDF). Journal of the Tibet Society. 7.
Schlagintweit, Emil (1863). Buddhism in Tibet. Augustus M. Kelley.
Simpson, William (1896). The Buddhist Praying Wheel. London: Macmillan.
Wright, A.R. (1904). Tibetan Prayer wheels. Folklore Enterprises.
"All about the ... Prayer Wheel". khandro.net.
"The Prayer Wheel". dharma-haven.org.
"prayer wheels and how they work". Nyingma Centers.

External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Prayer wheel (category)

Hand crafted wooden prayer wheels
Dharma-haven.org
Picture of prayer wheel at Muktinath, plus backgrounds
Nyingma Prayer Wheels for World Peace
The Internet Prayer Wheel 
Online Prayer Wheel 
vteTopics in Buddhism
 Outline
Glossary
Index
Foundations
Four Noble Truths
Three Jewels
Buddha
Dharma
Sangha
Noble Eightfold Path
Nirvana
Middle Way
The Buddha
Tathāgata
Birthday
Four sights
Great Renunciation
Physical characteristics
Footprint
Relics
Iconography in Laos and Thailand
Films
Miracles
Family
Suddhodāna (father)
Māyā (mother)
Mahapajapati Gotamī (aunt, adoptive mother)
Yaśodharā (wife)
Rāhula (son)
Ānanda (cousin)
Devadatta (cousin)
Places where the Buddha stayed
Buddha in world religions
Bodhisattvas
Avalokiteśvara
Guanyin
Mañjuśrī
Mahāsthāmaprāpta
Ākāśagarbha
Kṣitigarbha
Samantabhadra
Vajrapāṇi
Skanda
Tārā
Metteyya/Maitreya
Disciples
Kaundinya
Assaji
Sāriputta
Mahamoggallāna
Ānanda
Mahākassapa
Aṅgulimāla
Anuruddha
Mahākaccana
Nanda
Subhūti
Punna
Upāli
Mahapajapati Gotamī
Khema
Uppalavanna
Asita
Channa
Yasa
Key concepts
Avidyā (Ignorance)
Bardo
Bodhicitta
Buddha-nature
Dhamma theory
Dharma
Enlightenment
Five hindrances
Indriya
Karma
Kleshas
Mental factors
Mindstream
Parinirvana
Pratītyasamutpāda
Rebirth
Saṃsāra
Saṅkhāra
Skandha
Śūnyatā
Taṇhā (Craving)
Tathātā
Ten Fetters
Three marks of existence
Anicca
Dukkha
Anatta
Two truths doctrine
Cosmology
Ten spiritual realms
Six realms
Deva realm
Human realm
Asura realm
Hungry Ghost realm
Animal realm
Naraka
Three planes of existence
Branches
Mahayana
Zen
Chinese Chan
Japanese Zen
Korean Seon
Vietnamese Thiền
Pure Land
Tiantai
Huayan
Risshū
Nichiren
Madhyamaka
Yogachara
Vajrayana
Tibetan Buddhism
Chinese Esoteric Buddhism
Shingon
Dzogchen
Theravada
Navayana
Early Buddhist schools
Pre-sectarian Buddhism
Basic points unifying Theravāda and Mahāyāna
Practices
Bhavana
Bodhipakkhiyādhammā
Brahmavihara
Mettā
Karuṇā
Mudita
Upekkha
Buddhābhiṣeka
Dāna
Devotion
Deity yoga
Dhyāna
Faith
Five Strengths
Iddhipada
Meditation
Mantras
Kammaṭṭhāna
Recollection
Smarana
Anapanasati
Samatha
Vipassanā (Vipassana movement)
Shikantaza
Zazen
Koan
Ganana
Mandala
Tonglen
Tantra
Tertön
Terma
Merit
Mindfulness
Mindful Yoga
Satipatthana
Nekkhamma
Pāramitā
Paritta
Puja
Offerings
Prostration
Chanting
Refuge
Sādhu
Satya
Sacca
Seven Factors of Enlightenment
Sati
Dhamma vicaya
Pīti
Passaddhi
Śīla
Five precepts
Eight precepts
Bodhisattva vow
Pratimokṣa
Threefold Training
Śīla
Samadhi
Prajñā
Vīrya
Four Right Exertions
Twenty-two vows of Ambedkar
Nirvana
Bodhi
Bodhisattva
Buddhahood
Pratyekabuddha
Four stages of enlightenment
Sotāpanna
Sakadagami
Anāgāmi
Arhat
Monasticism
Bhikkhu
Bhikkhunī
Śrāmaṇera
Śrāmaṇerī
Anagārika
Ajahn
Sayadaw
Zen master
Rōshi
Lama
Rinpoche
Geshe
Tulku
Kappiya
Donchee
Householder
Upāsaka and Upāsikā
Achar
Śrāvaka
The ten principal disciples
Shaolin Monastery
Major figures
Gautama Buddha
Buddhaghosa
Nagasena
Bodhidharma
Nagarjuna
Asanga
Vasubandhu
Buddhapālita
Atiśa
Padmasambhāva
Aśvaghoṣa
Kumārajīva
Nichiren
B. R. Ambedkar
Songtsen Gampo
Emperor Wen of Sui
Dalai Lama
Panchen Lama
Karmapa
Saraha
Shamarpa
Thích Nhất Hạnh
Naropa
Xuanzang
Zhiyi
Texts
Early Buddhist Texts
Tripiṭaka
Mahayana sutras
Pāli Canon
Chinese Buddhist canon
Tibetan Buddhist canon
Dhammapada
Sutra
Vinaya
Madhyamakālaṃkāra
Abhidharmadīpa
Countries
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
China
India
Indonesia
Japan
Korea
Laos
Malaysia
Maldives
Mongolia
Myanmar
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Russia
Kalmykia
Buryatia
Singapore
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Thailand
Tibet
Vietnam
Middle East
Iran
Western countries
Argentina
Australia
Brazil
France
United Kingdom
United States
Venezuela
History
Timeline
Ashoka
Kanishka
Buddhist councils
History of Buddhism in India
Decline of Buddhism in India
Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution
Greco-Buddhism
Menander I
Buddhism and the Roman world
Buddhism in the West
Silk Road transmission of Buddhism
Persecution of Buddhists
Banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal
Buddhist crisis
Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism
Buddhist modernism
Vipassana movement
969 Movement
Women in Buddhism
Philosophy
Abhidharma
Atomism
Buddhology
Creator
Buddhism and democracy
Economics
Eight Consciousnesses
Engaged Buddhism
Eschatology
Ethics
Evolution
Humanism
Logic
Reality
Secular Buddhism
Socialism
The unanswered questions
Culture
Architecture
Temple
Vihāra
Kyaung
Wat
Ordination hall
Stupa
Pagoda
Burmese pagoda
Candi
Dzong architecture
List of Buddhist architecture in China
Japanese Buddhist architecture
Korean Buddhist temples
Thai temple art and architecture
Tibetan Buddhist architecture
Art
Greco-Buddhist
Bodhi Tree
Budai
Buddharupa
Calendar
Cuisine
Funeral
Holidays
Vesak
Uposatha
Māgha Pūjā
Asalha Puja
Vassa
Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Kasaya
Mahabodhi Temple
Mantra
Om mani padme hum
Mudra
Music
Pilgrimage
Lumbini
Maya Devi Temple
Bodh Gaya
Sarnath
Kushinagar
Poetry
Prayer beads
Hama Yumi
Prayer wheel
Symbolism
Dharmachakra
Flag
Bhavacakra
Swastika
Thangka
Temple of the Tooth
Vegetarianism
Miscellaneous
Abhijñā
Amitābha
Brahmā
Dharma talk
Hinayana
Kalpa
Koliya
Lineage
Māra
Ṛddhi
Siddhi
Sacred languages
Pāḷi
Sanskrit
Comparison
Baháʼí Faith
Christianity
Influences
Comparison
East Asian religions
Gnosticism
Hinduism
Jainism
Judaism
Psychology
Science
Theosophy
Violence
Western philosophy
Lists
Bodhisattvas
Buddhas
named
Buddhists
Suttas
Sutras
Temples
Festivals

 Category
 Religion portal

Authority control: National libraries 
Germany
United States





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Prayer_wheel&oldid=1079348059"
Categories: Buddhist ritual implementsPrayerBuddhist religious objectsTibetan cultureTibetan Buddhist practicesTibetan Buddhist ritual implementsTantric practicesHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from November 2021All articles needing additional referencesArticles lacking in-text citations from November 2021All articles lacking in-text citationsArticles with multiple maintenance issuesArticles containing Standard Tibetan-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2021Articles containing traditional Chinese-language textAll self-contradictory articlesSelf-contradictory articles from November 2021All accuracy disputesArticles with disputed statements from November 2021All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from November 2021Articles with unsourced statements from January 2016Articles with GND identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles containing video clips






Navigation menu



Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More








Search



















Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




In other projects


Wikimedia Commons




Languages


Boarischབོད་ཡིགCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolFrançais한국어ItalianoMagyarമലയാളംNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPiemontèisPolskiРусскийSvenskaไทยTiếng Việt中文
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 26 March 2022, at 08:45 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement










